Tn overload protection (#139)
apollographql/docs: src/content/technotes/TN0005-overload-protection.mdx

As the usage and size of your supergraph grow, the additional load created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. Overload protection is one way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Instead of using load as a handwavy term for when something happens, let use some concrete examples of things that could cause this "load."

One of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem), which is when a number of processes/clients attempt to access limited computer resources. A multitude of different things can cause this, for example:

- Pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic
- Push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period

> - Features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected
```

A more graph-based problem is adding a entity relationship in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. For example in the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current), imagine if there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it was added today. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of new load directly attributed to the change for the owner of the `Film` entity.

> The last type of load-generating event to talk about are organic stress events. These are events that happen outside your company's control and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last type of load-generating events to talk about are organic stress events. These are events that happen outside your company's control and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.
```

mb, my own typo

## Now, what do we do about this?

Most languages have some type of drop-in protection against this increase in pressure through a package; Node is no exception. For example, we'll look at one package named [overload-protection](https://www.npmjs.com/package/overload-protection) alongside `express`. This drag and drop package allows one to return a 503 based on the current event loop delay, the amount bytes used by the heap, and the amount of bytes used by Resident Set Size (RSS).

To use `overload-protection`, you'll include it in your express startup like this:

```js
const app = require("express")();
const protect = require("overload-protection")("express");
app.use(protect);
```

> \*_I will be using express in these examples. This does work for other frameworks._

Reviewer: redundant with the above note, although might be nice to note that it works with over frameworks. not critical to remove.

## Use With Apollo Server Express

If you're using `apollo-server-express`, you can add `overload-protection` via `express` middleware by adding the highlighted lines to your server creation:

```js {1,5}
const protect = require("overload-protection")("express");

async function startApolloServer(typeDefs, resolvers) {
  const app = express();
  app.use(protect);
  const httpServer = http.createServer(app);
  const server = new ApolloServer({
    typeDefs,
    resolvers,
    csrfPrevention: true,
    cache: "bounded",
    plugins: [ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({ httpServer })],
  });

  await server.start();
  server.applyMiddleware({ app });
  await new Promise((resolve) => httpServer.listen({ port: 4000 }, resolve));
  console.log(`🚀 Server ready at http://localhost:4000${server.graphqlPath}`);
}
```

> This approach and additions also work if you are using the `@apollo/subgraph` to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Overload protection is not specific to GraphQL, so it's best to handle it outside of Apollo software. The team at apollo already has a guide on how to change to `apollo-server-express` from `apollo-server` to allow the use of additional `express` middleware. The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach and additions also work if you are using the `@apollo/subgraph` to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Overload protection is not specific to GraphQL, so it's best to handle it outside of Apollo software. If you are running `apollo-server` instead, we have a guide on how to change to `apollo-server-express` from `apollo-server` to allow the use of additional `express` middleware. The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).
```

Author: I like this wording a lot better - I struggled with this part a lot.

---
title: TN0005 - Overload Protection
tags: [server, router, sre]
---

> Overload protection is adding some type of protection for your server to ensure it does not crash when put under a large amount of stress. The idea is we can have a service watch its resources and metrics, and when it notices, it's going to crash (think along the lines of Out of memory (OOM) killed). Overload protection is a huge sign of relief in a federated architecture. As the usage and size of your super graph grow, the pressure created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. No one means to stress other services to the point of degraded service, but it happens. Overload protection is the way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Reviewer 2: > and when it notices, it's going to crash

remove the comma

> Overload protection is adding some type of protection for your server to ensure it does not crash when put under a large amount of stress. The idea is we can have a service watch its resources and metrics, and when it notices, it's going to crash (think along the lines of Out of memory (OOM) killed). Overload protection is a huge sign of relief in a federated architecture. As the usage and size of your super graph grow, the pressure created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. No one means to stress other services to the point of degraded service, but it happens. Overload protection is the way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Author: done - updated in next push

> Overload protection is adding some type of protection for your server to ensure it does not crash when put under a large amount of stress. The idea is we can have a service watch its resources and metrics, and when it notices, it's going to crash (think along the lines of Out of memory (OOM) killed). Overload protection is a huge sign of relief in a federated architecture. As the usage and size of your super graph grow, the pressure created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. No one means to stress other services to the point of degraded service, but it happens. Overload protection is the way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Author: I like a lot of it, I changed some stuff around. Please double check it makes sense in the next push. I'll request your review when I push it today.

> Overload protection is adding some type of protection for your server to ensure it does not crash when put under a large amount of stress. The idea is we can have a service watch its resources and metrics, and when it notices, it's going to crash (think along the lines of Out of memory (OOM) killed). Overload protection is a huge sign of relief in a federated architecture. As the usage and size of your super graph grow, the pressure created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. No one means to stress other services to the point of degraded service, but it happens. Overload protection is the way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Reviewer: changes looked good

> As mentioned above, overload protection applies when your service is under stress. Instead of using stress as a handwavy term for when something happens, let us give some concrete examples of some things that could cause this "stress." The of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://www.notion.so/Overload-protection-ae3661da0d5940a0b300430f88873030#63e81848cc9b4c23bb96acad2a7c6a7b). A multitude of different things can cause this. Some examples are: pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic, push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period, features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected, etc. Another more graph-based problem is adding a link in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. Think of the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current). If there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it is added. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of stress. The last bucket to talk about is organic stress events. These are a large bucket of events that happen outside your company and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.

Reviewer 2: > As mentioned above, overload protection applies when your service is under stress.

I think this is unnecessary repetition. How about just listing the concrete examples instead of having an intro?

> As mentioned above, overload protection applies when your service is under stress. Instead of using stress as a handwavy term for when something happens, let us give some concrete examples of some things that could cause this "stress." The of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://www.notion.so/Overload-protection-ae3661da0d5940a0b300430f88873030#63e81848cc9b4c23bb96acad2a7c6a7b). A multitude of different things can cause this. Some examples are: pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic, push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period, features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected, etc. Another more graph-based problem is adding a link in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. Think of the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current). If there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it is added. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of stress. The last bucket to talk about is organic stress events. These are a large bucket of events that happen outside your company and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using load as a handwavy term for when something happens, let use some concrete examples of things that could cause this "load." 

One of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem), which is when a number of processes/clients attempt to access limited computer resources. A multitude of different things can cause this, for example: 

* Pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic
* Push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period
* Features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected. 

A more graph-based problem is adding a entity relationship in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. For example in the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current), imagine if there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it was added today. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of new load directly attributed to the change for the owner of the `Film` entity. 

The last type of load-generating event to talk about are organic stress events. These are events that happen outside your company's control and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.
```

> As mentioned above, overload protection applies when your service is under stress. Instead of using stress as a handwavy term for when something happens, let us give some concrete examples of some things that could cause this "stress." The of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://www.notion.so/Overload-protection-ae3661da0d5940a0b300430f88873030#63e81848cc9b4c23bb96acad2a7c6a7b). A multitude of different things can cause this. Some examples are: pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic, push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period, features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected, etc. Another more graph-based problem is adding a link in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. Think of the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current). If there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it is added. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of stress. The last bucket to talk about is organic stress events. These are a large bucket of events that happen outside your company and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.

Author: I was trying to illustrate adding a link that does not exist that will be a highly used link.

> ## Now, what do we do about this?!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Now, what do we do about this?
```

> Most languages have some type of drop-in protection against this increase in pressure through a package; Node is no exception. The package is named [overload-protection](https://www.npmjs.com/package/overload-protection). This drag and drop package allows one to return a 503 based on the current event loop delay, the amount bytes used by the heap, and the amount of bytes used by Rss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most languages have some type of drop-in protection against this increase in pressure through a package; Node is no exception. For example, we'll look at one package named [overload-protection](https://www.npmjs.com/package/overload-protection) alongside `express`. This drag and drop package allows one to return a 503 based on the current event loop delay, the amount bytes used by the heap, and the amount of bytes used by Resident Set Size (RSS). 
```

Reviewer: remove the note below if included

> It's straightforward to install with the base settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use `overload-protection`, you'll include it in your express startup like this:
```

most of our docs try to avoid "simple" or "straightforward" fyi; something that was flagged to me early on :)

```TypeScript
const app = require('express')()

> const protect = require('overload-protection')('express', protectCfg)

Reviewer 2: We're definitely going to get questions about recommendations for the config. Instead of giving any concrete recs, maybe you could speak to strategies for determining the best settings?

Author: I think that's a slippery slope. Each language has its own pit falls for when it's overloaded. I can find some case studies for node and put them in here if you think that would be worth it. It might be worth calling out that defaults and values change per language.

> const protect = require('overload-protection')('express', protectCfg)

Reviewer: `protectCfg` is undefined here; if we have recommended configuration settings it would be great, otherwise a note would suffice.

Author: removed this - it should be the able to take a `undefined` to use the defaults

app.use(protect)
```

\*_I will be using express in these examples. This does work for other frameworks._

> ## But what about Apollo Server or a subgraph (federation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use With Apollo Server
```

since all gateways/subgraphs/monoliths run Server in some capacity, we can simplify a bit

> If you're using `apollo-server-express`, it's straightforward. If your service looks something like the following:

Reviewer 2: Check out https://apollographql.quip.com/uSoRAk1r4knK/Apollo-Content-Style-Guide

Using terms like "straightforward" is a little bit problematic. It may not be many lines of code, but for someone brand new to the concept it might still be complicated/intimidating/not-so-straightforward.

> If you're using `apollo-server-express`, it's straightforward. If your service looks something like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using `apollo-server-express`, you can add `overload-protection` via `express` middleware.
```

Reviewer: Would also be nice if we could include info on how to include it with a native `apollo-server` installation.

```js
const app = express();
const httpServer = http.createServer(app);
const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  csrfPrevention: true,
  cache: "bounded",
  plugins: [ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({ httpServer })],
});

await server.start();
server.applyMiddleware({ app });
await new Promise((resolve) => httpServer.listen({ port: 4000 }, resolve));
console.log(`🚀 Server ready at http://localhost:4000${server.graphqlPath}`);
```

overload protection can easily be added using the following:

> ```js

Reviewer: 🤯 thanks for this, haven't seen that documented well anywhere

> ```js

Author: done - will be in next push.

const protect = require("overload-protection")("express", protectCfg);

async function startApolloServer(typeDefs, resolvers) {
  const app = express();
  app.use(protect);
  const httpServer = http.createServer(app);
  const server = new ApolloServer({
    typeDefs,
    resolvers,
    csrfPrevention: true,
    cache: "bounded",
    plugins: [ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({ httpServer })],
  });

  await server.start();
  server.applyMiddleware({ app });
  await new Promise((resolve) => httpServer.listen({ port: 4000 }, resolve));
  console.log(`🚀 Server ready at http://localhost:4000${server.graphqlPath}`);
}

> ```

Reviewer: If we could do a simplified version of this, it may avoid some confusion for the reader. Not sure off-hand of a good way to do this, unfortunately; might be to use a diff block instead, but would lose the JS highlighting.

Author: Played with this section a little bit to condense it down a lot. Let me know what you think.  (publishing it within the hour of posting this.)

> The difference between the two snippets is lines 1 and 5 are added in the second snippet. This approach and additions also work if you are using the @apollo/subgraph to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Unfortunately, the base Apollo server cannot implement overload protection. Luckily the team at apollo already has a guide on how to change from apollo-server to apollo-server-express! The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

Author: I see it as both. I looked around for a little bit to see what languages we officially support and couldn't find it. Do you know where I can find that list? like I know there is golang fed 2 support but we don't support golang so I don't really want to include that.

> The difference between the two snippets is lines 1 and 5 are added in the second snippet. This approach and additions also work if you are using the @apollo/subgraph to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Unfortunately, the base Apollo server cannot implement overload protection. Luckily the team at apollo already has a guide on how to change from apollo-server to apollo-server-express! The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

Author: going to add a small section about this at the bottom.

> The difference between the two snippets is lines 1 and 5 are added in the second snippet. This approach and additions also work if you are using the @apollo/subgraph to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Unfortunately, the base Apollo server cannot implement overload protection. Luckily the team at apollo already has a guide on how to change from apollo-server to apollo-server-express! The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

Author: rewrote this section a little bit - please let me know if it reads ok, I went back and forth a few times on it.

---

> title: TN0005 - Overload Protection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: TN0005 - Overload protection
```

tags: [server, router, sre]
---

> Overload protection is a type of protection for your server to ensure it does not become unavaible when put under a large amount of load. Simplified, overload protection is where a service watches its resource usage and metrics, and when it notices the server may have difficulties serving a request (for example running out of memory (OOM)), it sheds incoming traffic until it's healthy again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A GraphQL server can implement **overload protection** to help it remain available while under high load. With overload protection, a server monitors its resource usage and begins shedding incoming traffic whenever that usage approaches a performance-degrading limit (such as running out of memory).
```

> As the usage and size of your supergraph grow, the additional load created by creating new paths can be unexpectedly intense. Overload protection is one way to minimize the effects of an unintended or organic increase in pressure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As you add capabilities and users to your supergraph, you might introduce new usage patterns that add unexpectedly high load. Overload protection helps reduce the impact of these spikes while you optimize your supergraph to eliminate them entirely.
```

> Instead of using load as a handwavy term for when something happens, let use some concrete examples of things that could cause this "load."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> One of the easiest ones to describe is the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem), which is when a number of processes/clients attempt to access limited computer resources. A multitude of different things can cause this, for example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Example scenarios

A common source of overload in a system is the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem), where a large number of processes or clients attempt to access limited computer resources. Many scenarios can cause this, for example:
```

> - Pod failures in Kubernetes that cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Pod failures in Kubernetes cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic.
```

> - Push notifications/marketing events that drive traffic to the applications in a short period

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A marketing campaign or viral social media post drives high traffic to an application in a short period.
```

> - Features deployed that increase the load on the graph more than expected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A newly deployed feature introduces more load on the graph than expected.
```

A more graph-based problem is adding a entity relationship in the schema that causes a significant increase in traffic. For example in the [Star Wars schema](https://studio.apollographql.com/public/star-wars-swapi/home?variant=current), imagine if there was no link from `Person` to `Film`(though `PersonFilmsConnection`) and it was added today. Until the usage of that new connection in the schema flattens out, every deployment or event that causes traffic could cause a large amount of new load directly attributed to the change for the owner of the `Film` entity.

> The last type of load-generating events to talk about are organic stress events. These are events that happen outside your company's control and cause excess stress on your system. An easy example of this can be found when examining online stores. Say someone with many Twitter followers tweets your store's page with an item they like. Their followers will flood this page, causing an organic increase in pressure in the system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: I feel like this is reasonably covered in the edited bullet above that includes mention of a viral social media post? But feel free to ignore this suggestion if it feels important to include in addition

> ## Now, what do we do about this?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Implementing in Express
```

> Most languages have some type of drop-in protection against this increase in pressure through a package; Node is no exception. For example, we'll look at one package named [overload-protection](https://www.npmjs.com/package/overload-protection) alongside `express`. This drag and drop package allows one to return a 503 based on the current event loop delay, the amount bytes used by the heap, and the amount of bytes used by Resident Set Size (RSS).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Overload protection packages are available for most popular languages and server frameworks. For example, we'll look at using the [overload-protection](https://www.npmjs.com/package/overload-protection) package with `apollo-server-express`. This drop-in package enables your server to return a 503 based any of the following:

 * The current event loop delay
 * The amount of bytes used by the heap
 * The amount of bytes used by Resident Set Size (RSS).
```

> To use `overload-protection`, you'll include it in your express startup like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use `overload-protection`, you include it in your Express startup like so:
```

```js
const app = require("express")();
const protect = require("overload-protection")("express");
app.use(protect);
```

> ## Use With Apollo Server Express

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> If you're using `apollo-server-express`, you can add `overload-protection` via `express` middleware by adding the highlighted lines to your server creation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're using `apollo-server-express`, you can add `overload-protection` via Express middleware by adding the highlighted lines to your server creation:
```

```js {1,5}
const protect = require("overload-protection")("express");

async function startApolloServer(typeDefs, resolvers) {
  const app = express();
  app.use(protect);
  const httpServer = http.createServer(app);
  const server = new ApolloServer({
    typeDefs,
    resolvers,
    csrfPrevention: true,
    cache: "bounded",
    plugins: [ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({ httpServer })],
  });

  await server.start();
  server.applyMiddleware({ app });
  await new Promise((resolve) => httpServer.listen({ port: 4000 }, resolve));
  console.log(`🚀 Server ready at http://localhost:4000${server.graphqlPath}`);
}
```

> This approach and additions also work if you are using the `@apollo/subgraph` to create your subgraphs in a similar way. Overload protection is not specific to GraphQL, so it's best to handle it outside of Apollo software. If you are running `apollo-server` instead, we have a guide on how to change to `apollo-server-express` from `apollo-server` to allow the use of additional `express` middleware. The guide can be found [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This approach also works if you're using the `@apollo/subgraph` library to create your subgraphs in a similar way. 

Overload protection is not specific to GraphQL, so it's best to handle it outside of Apollo software. If you're currently using the batteries-included `apollo-server` library instead of `apollo-server-express`, [learn how to swap over](/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).
```

> ## Does this belong on the Router/Gateway or Subgraph?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Protecting a supergraph
```

> The short answer is both, for different reasons. The router to allow to protect the overall availability of the graph. A subgraph should have overload protection to reduce the error rates of queries that include data from that specific subgraph.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When adding overload protection to a supergraph, a reasonable question is, "Do I add protection to my gateway/router, or to my individual subgraphs?" The short answer is "both":

* Protecting the router protects the availability of the supergraph as a whole.
* Protecting a subgraph reduces the error rate for queries that request data from that subgraph.
```

> ### Router/Gateway

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Gateway/Router
```

> The main concern with the gateway is a build-up of pressure causing partial or cascading failures. If the gateway cannot properly shed the load placed on it, it will start to cause degraded performance. This happens due to a build-up of requests in the gateway. A single request to the gateway can turn into many requests to subgraphs. This expansion of requests can cause stress inside the gateway. When load creates this pressure, overload protection on the gateway can save your service from entirely falling over. This looks like a minor dip in availability vs. a total outage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The main concern with the gateway is a buildup of requests that cause partial or cascading failures. If the gateway can't shed excessive load, its performance starts to degrade.

A single request to the gateway usually transforms into multiple requests to subgraphs, which can increase load more than expected for complex queries. In such cases, overload protection in the gateway can save it from falling over entirely. This looks like a temporary dip in availability instead of a total outage.
```

> ### Subgraph

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Subgraphs
```

> A failure at the subgraph can cause a backup in the gateway. If this backup is due to load, overload protection becomes a way to short circuit the return of an error. This relieves the pressure in the gateway and the subgraph by allowing the gateway to return with errors faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A failure in a subgraph can cause a backup in the gateway. If this backup is due to load, overload protection helps short-circuit the return of an error. This relieves the pressure in both the gateway and the subgraph by allowing the gateway to return errors faster.
```

---
title: TN0005 - Overload protection
tags: [server, router, sre]
---

A GraphQL server can implement **overload protection** to help it remain available while under high load. With overload protection, a server monitors its resource usage and begins shedding incoming traffic whenever that usage approaches a performance-degrading limit (such as running out of memory).

As you add capabilities and users to your supergraph, you might introduce new usage patterns that add unexpectedly high load. Overload protection helps reduce the impact of these spikes while you optimize your supergraph to eliminate them entirely.

## Example scenarios

A common source of overload in a system is the [thundering herd problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thundering_herd_problem), where a large number of processes or clients attempt to access limited computer resources. Many scenarios can cause this, for example:

- Pod failures in Kubernetes cause a smaller amount of pods to handle the same amount of traffic.

> - A marketing campaign or viral social media post drives high traffic to an application in a short period.- A newly deployed feature introduces more load on the graph than expected.

Reviewer 2: new line before bullet item

Author: Are you saying I should remove the blank line on 13 or add a blank line between lines 14 and 15?

Reviewer 2: "- A newly deployed feature" needs a new line before it

Author: 👍 my wordwrap made that look like it was on a new line. Nice catch!

```js {1,5}
const protect = require('overload-protection')('express');

async function startApolloServer(typeDefs, resolvers) {
  const app = express();
  app.use(protect);
  const httpServer = http.createServer(app);
  const server = new ApolloServer({
    typeDefs,
    resolvers,
    csrfPrevention: true,
    cache: 'bounded',
    plugins: [ApolloServerPluginDrainHttpServer({ httpServer })],
  });

  await server.start();
  server.applyMiddleware({ app });
  await new Promise((resolve) => httpServer.listen({ port: 4000 }, resolve));
  console.log(`🚀 Server ready at http://localhost:4000${server.graphqlPath}`);
}
```

This approach also works if you're using the `@apollo/subgraph` library to create your subgraphs in a similar way.

Overload protection is not specific to GraphQL, so it's best to handle it outside of Apollo software. If you're currently using the batteries-included `apollo-server` library instead of `apollo-server-express`, [learn how to swap over](/apollo-server/integrations/middleware#swapping-out-apollo-server).

## Protecting a supergraph

> hen adding overload protection to a supergraph, a reasonable question is, "Do I add protection to my gateway/router, or to my individual subgraphs?" The short answer is "both":

Reviewer 2: "W"hen
